hey
first try
good morning good afternoon good evening
no matter where you are hope you all are
doing well welcome back we online
we online took us a minute but we online
let's go
we ain't outside we online
what's going on everybody
[Laughter]
thanks for hanging on
class isn't canceled we're back in the
building way online third try
uh the
i was a dumb dumb
stream labs updated i was like ah all
right i'll let the stream labs update go
through no problem
nothing i checked all my settings
checked everything looked good and then
uh went to go live so everything was
good until i went to go live once i went
live it was like oh you need a new
graphics driver so then i had to go get
the new graphics driver and that was
some some fun stuff but we're back we're
online we're ready to continue the best
week
ever thank you for being here i think i
should probably send out another like
we're actually live message
let's go ahead and make sure we actually
uh
let folks know that we're here
cool i'm gonna do that real quick
looks like we're looking good everyone
can hear looks like we're doing good all
right let's send out one more message
actually we are live
all right there we go we are actually
live
cool there we go
maybe maybe they got some of the riff
raff out maybe it's just the cool kids
left
all right folks welcome back
and we had a couple people come in
hello it's rufio hey thank you for the
raid i appreciate it thanks for coming
through
lee 1990s 1097a thank you for the raid
thanks for bringing some folks through
all right folks
we gotta we gotta finish up the
best week ever
and you know what we like to do we
always start off with some lovely
questions and so uh the question of the
day
was what was your best what was your
favorite part of the best week ever
that's today's question what was your
favorite part of the best
week ever we had a lot of stuff folks
there's a lot of things that happened we
uh
we had uh
not one but two new members of the
stream team hello it's rufio meinwolf
joining the stream team
we had uh nick's a wonderful talk the
first friday with friends session
we had a sponsored stream by microsoft
this is kind of wild just saying this
all out loud
we held our place down on our place
throughout the four days
that's a lot it's a lot
i've seen a lot of our places i love it
i love it i feel like our place was the
winner that's where we came together as
a community to to to to fight off the
void
oh glad you're all here hope you had
some fun during the best week ever we're
not done yet we got a few more raffles
to do today uh we have some other fun
things to do new merch so
a lot of fun stuff to get to this
evening
tonight should be
trying to get this because we kind of we
kind of lost some time in the beginning
so we'll try and recover some of that
time and
if everything goes well we'll be able to
get through our objects just some light
review some things we've already seen
before
and then jump into these apis uh tonight
we're going to play with three apis the
dog ceo api that we started with last
class and that mine wolf was using on
their stream
get some of that recall in get some of
that practice in then we're gonna be
using a cocktail database api uh to get
some drinks and some cool stuff going on
the screen and then if we have some time
left over we'll play around a little bit
with the nasa's apis and will set up the
homework for your weekend which is to
start building some cool stuff with
actual apis this is where it starts to
get real fun for me folks i think this
is where you have enough skills to be
dangerous you can start getting data
from other other places and starting to
use to combine that to build really neat
stuff so i'm hoping after tonight's
class you feel like you're you're ready
to start messing around with some apis
start pulling some data from some other
places start combining it in ways to
build the things that you want to build
so super excited let's get into this
let's wrap up this best week ever with a
banger folks don't worry we got some we
got some lovely raffles to get through
we got some other fun stuff to get to uh
but let's jump into it
uh if you haven't gone ahead and check
in please go ahead and check in for us
uh exclamation point check-in does
nothing it just gives you the link you
have to go to twitter and do the liking
and the retweeting i always appreciate
when you do that it helps more folks
find our lovely lovely community and uh
since
since we we weren't actually live
for a little while i think we need some
folks to realize that we're actually
back online and live so i appreciate it
uh for uh for doing the look at the
likes and the retweets it always helps
all right
remember we had some some some breathing
room this month some breathing room this
month no networking until may
client deadline got pushed to may 3rd
so if you are kind of been struggling to
get that client you got a little bit
more time to get it uh and we're
chilling the networking just for a month
to give us some time to focus on
building right tonight your homework is
to build to build some real projects
with some real data with some real apis
and so you need a little bit of time uh
to to to be able to focus on those
things
cool
we also had this idea of client
alternatives right so if for some reason
you're not able to uh seek out a paid
client there are two things that we
could do instead
i'm talking to my first real potential
client didn't think it would get one hey
congrats kismet got my deposit congrats
that's huge
yeah i think that my client's so excited
hey that's what i'd love to hear yeah uh
it's been really cool to see on the
celebration channel if you're getting
clients come on
now if you're getting clients posting
the celebrations channel come on now
folks
you gotta you gotta celebrate the wins
so many folks are getting clients and i
see it on twitter i'm like what are you
doing getting the celebrations channel i
want to hear that you won we need that
place to be lit so when you get a client
posting celebrations channel
please louise
got a paid client and i just did one for
charity nice
fine alternatives uh you can remember
you can volunteer for a grassroots org
so if for some reason you're not able to
get a paid client some folks have visa
issues things like that
you volunteer for a grassroots
organization but you still do
the full process you still have a client
you still you still have a contract you
still have a proposal
i just got my first seven thousand
dollar client what that's wild congrats
that's huge
political season is upon us yeah that's
true a lot of grassroots orgs are gonna
be uh kind of uh turning up the steam
and so great time to find one of those
orgs to work with
you can also contribute to free software
open source software
shrimp fest
1500 client that's wild all right if you
got a client
put that you got a client in chat and if
you're feeling real spicy put the amount
if you got a client to say client
and if you feel spicy put it 25k client
get out of here that's wild two clients
200 got a client got a client got a
client got a client got a client got a
client seven hundred a thousand five
hundred
holy smokes
look at this folks
what
hold on
bruh
what
we don't get got
we go get
holy smokes
what
wow
wow wow
wow that's huge
that's huge
wow super proud of all y'all i didn't
think
uh we'd get that many that quickly
that's pretty wild
wow you broke me for a second
damn
we out here we online folks i don't know
what else to say damn
look at us go
let's go
damn
all right well i gotta stop myself from
crying for a second we're doing good all
right no water works yet
that's wild folks congratulations
everyone that got the client and
congratulations everybody's still
pushing still trying to get the job done
that's wild
all righty folks
well a lot of you don't need the
alternatives but they're here
volunteer for a grassroots org
or contribute to free software uh
because we we talked about this on
on
on tuesday the idea that a lot of stuff
can be
assuaged or or smoothed over when you
have a paid client and that's why it's
so important
why it's so important
cool that's wild congrats everyone uh
also youtube we're up we're we're
we are
we are kind of almost caught up
the
git and github clash just went up on
youtube today uh you'll see
tuesday's class i'm going to edit it i'm
going to edit it as much as i can and
i'll probably make it unlisted
so
tuesday's class will get edited and
probably be unlisted if i can remove the
names i will do it so i'm not making a
promise yet but i'm going to try and get
it a lot of folks have asked for it um
but if i can edit it in a way that i
think
makes it look good we'll make it
unlisted video otherwise we are caught
up on youtube
so people are also posting they got jobs
already this is this is just wild
give me a moment folks
damn
cool other than that youtube should be
caught up this you know what [__] it
this is i said what was my favorite part
of the best week ever it's just right
now
it was this right now is the part the
best part of the best week ever
so many of you got clients already
that's real money
what
ted talks too hey thank you for the
gifted subs thank you for being here
and amy loose smiles hey thank you for
the hydration cheers to you
this really is the best week exactly
indifferent this really is
the best week ever holy smokes
all right folks
youtube's caught up
uh i try to post as soon as i can
remember we always have a delay because
twitch uh part of our partnership
agreements we can't post right away so i
know a lot of folks do like to catch up
on youtube uh it's i don't monetize the
youtube so there's no ads there so if
you've been like watching the vods here
on twitch you're probably gonna have a
way better experience on youtube uh just
because it there's no ads so if you're
if you feel like you need to catch up
with some of the videos probably use
youtube instead of the instead of the
vods and uh yeah
leon being stunned that his method works
i know it works but it's also a whole
different thing to see like
a hundred plus people
show out that they've gotten paid
clients in like one and go
that's that's pretty wild
also a lot of you don't actually type in
chat
[Laughter]
coming after you uh so i know there's
even way way more uh so that that's
pretty funny
cool
best week ever
all right
merch so many folks wanted merch so we
got some merch options it's not open yet
yeah you you're wild folks uh it's not
open yet uh so many folks went at merch
i gave you a couple days heads up
um
and so there's a couple big pieces
that'll go back up it's not live yet
there's a couple big pieces that'll go
live
and
let's see
boom
there we go
does the verge go down already
i think it went down already
oh boy i don't know if i can even show
it it won't even let me show it
all right so there's a couple things
i'll i'll explain i'll draw it for you
i'll draw you what maybe i can show you
this page i don't think there's anything
here
um
i'll do i guess i can take screenshots
on my end
let's see
boom
all right so it was the same as last
time
we had the og 100 dev software
engineering shirt and in both kind of
the kind of like normal cut and then
kind of a
like the more rounded cut
and then we had three new items
that were in limited stock
and i literally don't think it can like
load fast enough
it was wild
so i'll pull it up here
here were the the other ones that are
not loading for some reason
we had uh
we had a very very very exclusive 100
dev shirt
just to see how the print worked
we had the
r place
the r place
lovely
pixel
t-shirt
and then uh stickers as well because i
wanted to be like a way cheaper option
as well for folks that wanted it
so
if it all sells out we'll do another run
um but i always want to do like limited
stuff whenever we do launch it uh but
yeah it looks like merch went down real
quick
i literally opened it while i was
talking okay here we go here we go oh
cool cool we're good we're good we're
good all right so merge should be up now
uh you could see
uh the stuff that's that's still here
super limited quantities
and uh there's the lovely limited
edition stickers from our time in our
place
uh we have our lumen edition our place
t-shirt uh the 100 devs in this is sour
stands pro which is my favorite font
plus the 100 folks asked for it uh it's
a little bit of an inside joke they
always use source sans pro for
everything if you know you know
the og search for folks that wanted them
and then we have the lovely only fans
match fanny pack uh everything here is
at cost there's literally no profit on
any of this stuff as cheap as they will
let me sell it is what i sell it to you
all there's no profit you made on any of
this stuff except for the fanny pack
because i find it hilarious to charge
full price for it so
all these
all of these are um
like no profit on them at all and then
the fanny pack is this the max they
would let me sell it for i sell it for
max because it gives you the only fan
match and i can't sell my body for that
for that cheap
cool
alrighty so that that's more folks asked
for it if it sells out we'll do another
run and maybe a month or so maybe it'll
be like a monthly thing
but i really folks a lot of folks asked
for the
the our place so i made the stickers and
the t-shirt because i think that was a
really fun experience so
merch is up
i can hear the the things coming in
and so we're gonna we're probably gonna
chill those sounds
there we go
and one of these days we're going to do
our own merch and so
there is the shipping is more than a
sticker sorry i don't know how much
shipping is on the sticker
we will in the future do our own merch
where i'll take stock ahead of time
because i want way bigger sizes and some
smaller sizes as well uh so this is kind
of like the testing ground to see what
works and then uh we will
continue from there so
everyone asks for it you got it merch is
in here i'll let you all kind of
panic through that and then like i said
maybe like a every other month thing
we'll do more merch some limited edition
stuff and some of the og stuff
the hoodies were all out
uh the hoodies were all out and so like
the hoodie the quality that we really
liked
they did not have them like in stock
right now and so we'll bring the hoodies
back hopefully like the next merch drop
because i know a lot of people want them
it's just that the quality one that we
really liked um they didn't they they
just didn't have them right now so
uh next time they're back in stock we'll
do another one
yeah
yeah master shout out to octo shrimpy
who designed the r place version yep so
the the the the logo for the
the that we actually placed in our place
was done by octo shrimpy thank you for
pasting that uh and that's the the
design we actually put in our place so
octo shrimpy uh i got a shirt coming
your way so after shrimpy we got one
coming your way
just uh send me a mod mail please
cool
all right yeah i think a lot of folks
are going to get caught at the payment
stage because some of this stuff was
limited quantities
alrighty
uh this is the best week ever
but it's the best week ever because uh
uh quite a few folks has helped us get
here along the way
i really want to do something bigger
but there are some thank yous i would
like to say today
uh this best week ever has honestly been
the best week ever seeing everyone come
through to to to come support the new
members of the stream team to come to
our first friday with friends in huge
numbers
we we literally locked down
the top of the software and game
development category like we just lock
it down
polo rufio had number one on the science
and game dev
uh category the entire time
mayan wolf number one on the science
and sorry software and game development
category the whole time we lock it down
right we had 700 plus people come to our
first friday with friends this is wild
this community is a massive and it's
amazing and i think it needs to be said
that it doesn't happen this way like an
accident right it's the hard work of
everyone that's here it's the hard work
of all the folks that show up time and
time again that come to class that type
in class that show up on discord uh it's
it's it's because of y'all and behind
the scenes there are a lot of folks that
actually helped make this run really
smoothly so i want to take a second to
say some thank yous
and then i want to start maybe like
highlighting a person every week because
i just don't think folks realize
that it's not just me that there's a lot
of folks behind the scenes making this
all happen so i want to thank the mods
real quick so blah cat and motion i'm
going to use like your discord name
because i don't know if you know if you
want to use the other names so blah cat
emotion div ker and different ghost
jennifer chris
miriam
and kieran thank you i call him
memphis thank you so much to all the
mods
i don't think you realize
how much stuff they do on a day-to-day
basis uh answering questions all
throughout discord filtering out weird
messages making sure the community is
upholding to a great community to be a
part of making sure our rules get
enforced
it doesn't run well without our lovely
lovely mods so thank you thank you thank
you
um
each one of these mods has something
that makes them amazing and makes them
uh make this kind of
go smoothly so i'm going to take a
second just to say an individual thing
for each one and then i will i will like
i said do something bigger as we kind of
go go throughout the weeks
uh blah right off the rip
any of the big improvements you've seen
on discord or part of the community has
been their hard work if you're in a
study community it's because of their
hard work if you
[Laughter]
if you are seeing any of the newer stuff
we're doing to try and bring people
together that's all blah that's not me
that's blah so uh
blah has an amazing ability to
uh work
not only with the folks going through
the cohort but our alumni bring people
together build community and then
they're also creating content too
like what
so thank you blah
cat emotion
shows up when we need them the most
uh is always there to kind of lift folks
spirits and some of the channels that we
have that are newer and um always
appreciate their their help uh here here
on uh twitch as well uh one time
actually putting it into
putting it into only mode giving me a
small
small heart attack as i didn't realize
what was happening and bringing it back
uh but
really do one of the most positive
people i've ever interacted with that
brings joy to this community in untold
ways uh in different ghosts
like come on now
so many folks are getting jobs because
of the help indifferent has given folks
the the the attention
the the
the helping look at code the being a
sounding board for so many questions
every time i go into the askleon channel
and different is there going going to
go into battle and answering so many
questions for the community and so
i i would be
swamped
swamped uh without indifference hard
work so thank you different ghosts
occ
is
the most articulate person i have ever
come across
they they we will have somebody that
will send a mod mail where i am
absolutely stumped on how i'm going to
respond to this person and then i like
refresh and occ
jennifer uh has written out a beautiful
reply that like makes the person seen
and heard and
answers their question in a way that i
just probably wouldn't be able to do
chris
is
in a similar vein
in the channels where the questions are
the hardest chris is in there
making sure that they're pulling in
resources making sure people have a good
direction
and
i would not be able to answer the amount
of questions i answer without chris
jumping in there and and pulling
everything together specifically in the
ass leon channel
difker
divker makes the server run
uh
i i don't i don't think i don't think
folks see this a lot
but the server runs because of difficult
uh all these little things that would
slip by my mind they see they bring up
and they they help us work to fix it
they're always answering questions they
keep a pulse on everything i actually
don't know how they are in so many
channels
but difficult is able to cut just like
the just the overseer
and whenever something's going down
they're the first to see it they bring
it to our mod chat we're able to handle
it so so many things that would have
been distractions to the community so
many things that would have been things
that we don't just want here that we
want to fix and solve has come because
of their hard work
miriam uh is is is someone that brings a
lot of joy to twitch they're the person
i see the most on twitch out of anyone
else just kind of answering questions
being here and then showing up in a
different time zone which leads us also
i'm going to call them memphis i've
always called them memphis
kieran memphis
[Music]
we're a global community
and the bulk of our folks
uh that that are on the mod team are are
not in a different time zone but miriam
and memphis are and they show up
and when memphis shows up it's always
the most warm
kind
response that you could ever possibly
think of always saying hello making sure
that folks feel welcome and so i i just
the the community would not have been
shaped the way it was shaped without
memphis showing up to um
to to be welcome and kind to folks
especially when
everyone else is asleep
there's some other folks too that i want
to mention just quickly uh telescope
scenes they're technically a mod but
they lead our project team and um
they actually help us build some really
beautiful things that we're going to
hopefully bring to y'all very soon so i
went to throw it out there and then we
we have uh two two other mods that were
are og's that i just wanted i just wanna
throw it out there alyssa o'kayla they
held it down for the longest time for us
and um like i said there's so many folks
that i want to thank there's so many
folks that make this community run and
and be able to do the things that we do
so this is just the start i really do
want to give praise to a lot more folks
to the stream team the folks that put
themselves out there for others to to
benefit others for everyone that shows
up all the folks that are that are
mentors and
helpers on the channel thank you thank
you thank you thank you um but i i
needed to end the best week ever
by throwing at least some of those
praises out because this community is an
amazing community it's helped so many
folks learn how to code it's helped so
many folks get jobs it's how so many
people get clients that we just saw
today like my mind is blown and it
doesn't happen without it being
intentional
without it not being an accident and so
these folks give up their nights their
weekends their days to make sure that
this continues to go on so i want to say
a huge thank you to everyone and then
also a huge thank you to you
we're a big community now
a big community thousands of people our
discord is almost at 3 000 30 000 people
that's huge when i look at the
reach that 100 devs has on twitter we're
seeing over a million in organic reach
that's a million eyeballs that are
seeing the stuff that you are working on
that blows
my mind
and so
are we outside we outside but we online
too
we online right and so thank you to
everyone that
takes some time to help others
that takes some time to improve the
community to make it better than when
you joined that doesn't go unnoticed and
so thank you thank you thank you
cool all right we got that out the
system
i i like i said i want to be able to
highlight some more folks as we go
throughout the weeks but we couldn't we
couldn't get through the best week ever
without saying those things
alrighty
tonight
we're going through
objects
we are going through apis
we're going to have some fun we're going
to build some things we're going to do a
little bit of reviewing and then we're
going to go deep playing with the api so
we feel comfortable so that for homework
we can build some apps with these apis
already
uh people are oh yeah this is actually
something that i wanted there's actually
something to bring up because we got
through the good stuff
people are starting to talk about people
not showing up for coffee chats
i don't think it's 100 devs
i really don't
i think the folks that are here that are
showing up
that are part of this community wouldn't
do that to people
but when your hashtag has a million
people that see it in seven days
a million people that see it in seven
days
i don't i don't think it's us
i really don't
i think that if you're on twitter
and you're using the hundred devs
hashtag you gotta realize that there's a
million people that just saw
that hashtag in seven days
[Laughter]
so i i don't know what to say more on
that i think the real community is
honestly on discord i love i i think
twitter has its place
but uh come to discord that's where most
people hang out
you don't have to worry about the riff
raff that are out there
and uh if you are a person that's
scheduling coffee chats please show the
[__] up or just let the person know that
you're not going to show up but i think
we've talked about this enough to where
i honestly don't think anyone that is
here would actually do that anymore and
so um yeah
that's what happens when you you're on
an open platform people use the hundred
devs hashtag as though they're using
some other hashtag like 100 days of code
it's okay um just know that it's not
just us anymore we're big we outside we
online what can i say
bring them the discord if you see folks
that want to be helpful
you see folks that that want to support
the community bring them to discord but
that's where they're going to interact
with the most folks that's where they
can be the most help in our help
channels um yeah
might not just be twitter
[Laughter]
yeah
we had a million eyeballs on that
hashtag in seven days a million in seven
days that's wild that's so wild
but uh so with all the good that that
comes with that so many folks coming and
joining our community
joining our discord
our discord has grown by ten thousand in
what like a month and a half like
yeah come on now
you got we got to take the good with the
bad and so i definitely feel bad for
folks that that open up public calendars
on the internet for random people to
sign up
but
kinda hard
change the number
maybe maybe that's how we really end
alrighty
so tonight let's start with a little bit
of review and then once we get through a
little bit of review we'll take our top
of the hour
break
alrighty
programming chat what's a program
it's a set of instructions exactly it's
a set of instructions that we write to
tell a computer what to do
and therefore the act of programming is
writing those instructions in a language
that the computer can understand
the language that we write that the
computer can eventually understand
is javascript and we're starting to get
into the we're starting to get into the
groove with javascript folks we're
starting to see some of the uh the the
realness of it we're starting to see
we're moving from just patterns to maybe
understanding what's happening when we
look at our code when we used to see
like document.queryselector.value
we didn't know that value was a property
and query selector could be a method and
document was an object right but now
but now we can start to to see what's
happening underneath the hood a little
bit as we start to go deeper and part of
that is getting comfortable with objects
and we need to get comfortable with
objects because one of the main
paradigms we're going to use going
forward to help us bring structure and
organization to our code is something
called object oriented programming
right object oriented programming
and so to get there we have to feel
really comfortable with objects and so
we're going to have quite a few
quite a few classes
on
getting through apis because with apis
we can play with our objects and then
once we're feeling really comfortable
we'll introduce object-oriented
programming we'll get comfortable with
this like really important coding
paradigm and then we'll move on to the
back end
uh we do have to do something important
thank you for uh mentioning it in in
chat
we haven't done
the uh the newsletter raffle yet
the newsletter raffle yet
and so i'm just going to go ahead and
grab all these twitch names
slot remember folks it pays to open the
newsletter
pays open news if you're not on the
newsletter exclamation point newsletter
follow that link sign up for the
newsletter
so many folks have won t-shirts and and
amazing raffles from the newsletter
so for those that opened up the
newsletter and filled out the secret
form that was in the newsletter today
this one's for you
i see folks trying to fill it out now
you know what you're in here if you
filled it out right now you're good
still all right so
let me pull this name picker here
all right we had
1500 people that entered it
uh when i met before i mentioned it
fifteen other people that meant that and
entered before i mentioned it remember
it pays to open the newsletter folks
sometimes there's a secret there's a
secret raffle in there sometimes they're
not i don't know you gotta open it you
gotta see
also all the goods come in the
newsletter first
so many raffle bots in chat nah they're
not raffle bots they're just really
eager people
[Laughter]
alrighty paddy d9 paddy d9 congrats
on your t-shirt i will send you a
whisper here on twitch uh everyone that
won raffles up until today
you should have received a whisper from
me on twitch uh and for folks that had
even older ones that were mod males you
should receive the message from me
already
if for whatever reason
you won something and you have not heard
from me send a mod mail please but you
should have heard from me already uh
petty d i'll get to you uh after stream
cool
awesome and like i said we got a couple
other raffles today too folks
and uh we're gonna get to our top of the
hour break in just a second so like i
said we're building up to this idea of
using objects right of using objects
and
what are
objects
we still got project letters and things
like that to announce as well yeah what
are objects
everything exactly more specifically
though we know that everything in
javascript really boils down to objects
but what are they
um
they are collections
of variables and functions i like that
but they're collections of variables and
functions
but when these variables and functions
are tied to an object what do we call
them
what do we call them
yeah we call them properties and methods
so if you know what a variable is
and you know what a method is
sorry if you know what a function is you
know what a variable is you know what a
function is and you combine them into
one thing you're dealing with objects
right an object have a bunch of
variables a bunch of methods that are
tied to it but we call them properties
and methods
all right
now
i like to think of objects when it comes
to physical objects and so what i would
love for us to do is to take our break
and then when we come back we're going
to think through some physical objects
we're going to think through
how to build out a constructor again
we're gonna see all the things that we
got into with objects beforehand we're
gonna do that we're gonna take a break
we'll come back we'll start with our
physical objects and then our goal is to
get to building a constructor together
today and then moving on to apis
all right folks let's go ahead and bring
up a five minute timer
remember don't dm me dm me won't get to
me if you want something and you haven't
heard from me a mod mail please not dm
mod mail
all righty folks put in five minutes on
the timer here
alrighty if you're able to please get up
move around
hydrate and i will see you in five
come on now
well we added two minutes to the timer
so let's uh when this gets to four i'll
change it to six
and i'll run some ads as well
[Music]
more our place shirts maybe we'll
probably do another drop right
all right
i'm gonna change this to six minutes
then we're gonna run some ads and i'll
take my break as well
boom
all right folks see in six minutes two
minutes was add it to the timer
and run some ads
boom
in a bit
[Music]
so
bob was on strike
simba unfortunately just had a procedure
and so he's like completely out of it
he's home but he's completely out of it
and so i was just laying with him and i
forgot to put bob up
he's doing all right
yeah
all right folks welcome back
let's get into it
alrighty so we had two questions how do
i submit the homework no homework to
submit tonight
uh no no homework to submit tonight
oh scotty from strange parts raided and
we were on a break
get out of here
strange parts hey thank you for the raid
hope you are doing well i hope your
stream went well hope you're feeling
better too
hey
no worries thank you for being here
thanks for the raid
welcome welcome
uh yeah we had a lot of folks that
really enjoyed coming and hanging out
with you the other day and
seeing you i hope you finished the the
the wood rack that you were working on
but uh thanks for stopping by raiders
thanks for the raid hope your stream
went well
alrighty
see this is the best week ever so we're
we're wrapping up the best week ever and
so come on now
change prices hands down
i'm gonna i'm gonna say one of like
definitely my favorite youtube channel
[Laughter]
like heads down my favorite youtube
channel uh i've i've watched all your
videos like
way too many times
so i appreciate you coming by thank you
for bringing the crew and uh hopefully
we can stop by your way again soon
thanks for the raid
all righty so we we had two questions
that i saw as i came back
uh let me see actually let me put the
youtube channel in
let's see let me pull it up real quick
here we go
boom i'll put it in chat
if you have it
definitely
subscribe
some of the best videos on youtube hands
down
cool
alrighty
we had two questions that i noticed as
we were coming back
uh one
was
one was homework uh nothing to submit
for the homework you had to do it but i
don't need you to submit anything for it
and going forward almost all of our
homework will be submitted on github so
if you haven't watched the uh
the github course or the class that we
did that was sponsored by microsoft make
sure you catch that video on youtube
make sure you watch it that way you feel
a little bit more comfortable with
git and github and then next week we're
going to walk through submitting the
actual homework on git and github
yeah so the idea here is that you will
eventually stop using like the google
forms and weird stuff like that and
we'll submit all of our work on getting
using git and submitting it on github
and so if you haven't caught up with
that class yet please make sure you do
maybe re-watch it just so that you feel
more comfortable with it practice
pushing up some stuff to github and then
we'll start using that to submit for
class again
cool
the other question
uh
the other question i saw is what are
some practical uses of objects and so
we're going to see that today
one of the beautiful things about
objects is that they're used all
throughout javascript whenever you're
trying to build anything you're going to
be using it in a series of a bunch of
objects
right and so we're going to eventually
get to a
way of thinking
about anything that we're building
that's going to be in an object-oriented
approach right so right now it doesn't
have to be something that's like a a
wild connection that you have in your
brain yet we're still kind of gathering
all of our tools
and once we have all of our tools we're
going to use these tools to not only
build stuff but to kind of think about
our code in a very specific way and so
yeah it seems a little weird we're
building cars and tony hawk pro skaters
and other weird stuff but eventually we
have all these tools and we understand
the mechanics behind them then we can
kind of change how we build going
forward so that's the goal
and so
it really is just a collection
of properties and methods of of of these
kind of functions and variables but
whenever we're building anything we can
think about those things in terms of a
collection of variables and functions so
whether it is a board game or
a
a even kind of like building out some of
the core functionality of our web
applications it's all going to come down
to objects at the end of the day so
give me a little little faith to get
there we need a little bit more tools in
our tool belt i don't like jumping
straight to that because i think it's
too hard to take it all in in one go but
we're building up to it we'll get there
cool for now let's worry about like what
an individual object is right when an
individual object is and that individual
object we can think by starting off of
just a physical object and so
the object that we we've talked a lot
about during class is just a stopwatch a
stopwatch is great because it does have
a really strong collection of properties
and methods
what are some properties of the
stopwatch we have on screen
yeah color property
uh a brand property a shape property
a material type property that's cool we
haven't talked about that one before
um
a weight property that'd be a cool one
a model property
even like a minute seconds and and
milliseconds property right
and so notice how we're all talking
about the properties
and then all these properties have
values so we have the
color property that would be the value
of black
we have the shape property that would
have the value of round we would have
the brand property that would have the
value of accusplit we would have the
model property which would be the value
of pro survivor we would have the
minutes property which would have the
value of three so we have all these
properties and their associated values
that make up this one object but this
object also has functions or methods
actions that it can do what are the
methods that are tied to this very
physical stopwatch object
yeah we can kind of see some of the big
ones right there start and stop and
split and reset right all these things
that the stopwatch can do
the actions it can take right so that
start that stop the mode the split the
reset uh we can we can utilize all those
things uh to
to to make our object be able to do
stuff right and so whenever we're
thinking about any object
it can be a stopwatch it can be a car
there are going to be properties and
and methods that we can tie to it and
that's going to keep carrying on through
our code as well
we're going to start to see these things
today when we get to our apis our apis
are going to have these properties that
we can use and start to build with them
and so
we'll get more and more kind of
usefulness out of this as time goes on
all right
how have i created a stopwatch on this
line right here
i created a stopwatch object using what
type of notation here
yeah
literal notation
uh when we're we're literally creating
the object because we've used the curly
braces
directly
now i've added the very first property
to my object here using what type of
notation
yeah dot notation exactly so
i've literally created an object on this
line and then i added a current time
property that had the value of
and then i added a tell time property
right a tell time property
that
sorry not tell time property a telltime
method how can i tell that this is a
method
yeah it's assigned to a function
so i can see that this is a property
because it's set equal to
any other data structure that we've
learned and we can tell that this is a
method because it's set to a function
beautiful and we see that this function
is very simple it takes in a value and
then it will say the current time is
that value
using a template literal and then down
here
we are calling that telltime method and
how can i tell that i am calling the
telltime method
how can i tell that i'm calling this
yeah the parentheses exactly i can see
that there are parentheses and i can see
that i'm passing in an argument that is
using the current time property of the
stopwatch object so i'm literally
passing in
12 here
right i'm literally passing in 12.
all right passing in 12.
and so
we can go ahead and say that this is
kind of just the number 12 there because
stopwatch current time was 12. so we
passed in 12
we passed it as a parameter and we wind
up seeing the current time is 12 print
it to the console
beautiful
alrighty
all right we had this let's code of
objects lost galaxy so let's go ahead
and take a look at it real quick
and
we we've created a dog object before
let's go let's check what's it what's a
different object that we could create
not not not a dog we've already created
a dog what's another object that we
could create
pizza i like pizza pizza's a good one so
let's change this to create a pizza
object that has four properties and
three methods and i don't want you to
use
a constructor
wait is it just it's just coming through
the notification is just coming through
strange parts thank you again for the
raid
uh thank you for bringing your crew over
here uh thank you for all the content
you put out
i love it
all right
so this is in the objects lost galaxy
folder
and if you need the materials maybe
you're new maybe you came here with a
raid uh you can get all of our materials
on discord so if you do exclamation
point discord you agree to our rules
there is a follow-along materials
channel that has all the materials that
we're going to be using including our
apis today so you definitely want the
materials if you're going to be hanging
around for a little while longer so i'm
going to put just like like
three minutes three minutes on the clock
here
even if you've got this down pat really
try and build this out go go for the win
here three minutes on the clock you got
this
you're creating a pizza object that has
four properties and three
methods
yeah you gotta agree to the rules and
then you'll see a follow-along materials
channel that has all the materials in it
for today
yeah it said dog we already did dog does
let's swap at the pizza
this is review
all right folks two minutes and we're
gonna go over it together don't worry
what does pizza do exactly
oh i like that pizza toppings as an
array i think it's a cool idea
i was charged a couple times yeah
they'll sort it out the stream labs
handles it pretty well
i'm sure that eventually it'll it'll
clear uh if not hit up stream labs
they're pretty good about supporting the
folks
on my drink i'm drinking some some
coffee today just some instant coffee
all right 45 seconds and we'll go over
it together
instant sacrilege sometimes that's all
that's all you got time for it's a long
day
i drink coffee at this time of day i'm
up forever there's there's one beautiful
thing about being bipolar and taking
medicine that knocks you out it doesn't
matter what i do as long as i take my
meds i'm out
the best part of adhd coffees has no
power at night so that is actually
interesting
coffee ain't got nothing on seroquel
exactly
all right folks come on back
let's go over this together
i always like the joke one of the the
very first time i got put on um
i don't know i think it's not joke it's
just a story
uh the very first time i got put on adh
medicaid adhd adhd medication i took it
and i took the best nap of my life
like i took my adhd medication i was
ready to like get [__] done
and i just took the the best nap i've
ever had in my whole entire life and i
found that that's like a pretty common
thing like if you get folks that have
certain types of attention issues they
take the the adderall or whatever and it
just helps them like get good sleep
so the complete opposite of what i was
expecting but
it was it was good
took a glorious nap your first day hey i
love to hear it vlog exactly
yeah
all right let's create this pizza object
so we're going to use literal notation
to create it so we'll say let
pizza
equal and then we have our curly braces
beautiful
now what are some some so what are some
properties
what are some properties that our pizza
could have
size
toppings
and crust let's go and do pizza
size
equals
large
cool pizza
dot toppings
equals and we can use it we can use an
array here that's a really good
suggestion to use an array so i'm going
to do spinach
and i'm going to do
um
onion
and i'm going to do
um
jalapenos
yeah we'll stop there
or banana peppers but not i could do
banana peppers too
can never spell banana
banana
peppers there we go cool all right so we
got our size we got our toppings what's
something else we could do
peppercinis no i can tell i can tell
you're not domino's gang when you say
pepperchinis
that's some papa john's [__]
crust we said crust exactly
crust
what type of crust do you all like
say thin crushed you're wrong
stuffed
hell yeah
there you go stuffed crust
[Laughter]
uh so that's four properties we need one
more property one more property
uh sauce
heavy sauce
always heavy on the sauce
heavy on the sauce for sure
cool oh we gotta add garlic too we
forgot garlic on the topic that's the
best topping
there we go beautiful all right so we
got our four properties and we need
three methods
as somebody said excellently in chat
what can pizza do
that's a good one
made it
delivery time it's part of the pizza
i say
console.log
calculating
uh pizza dot
[Laughter]
burn mouth
oh yeah buddy
[Music]
there we go all right and what's the
last one
let's see what's one more we can do
frisbee
[Music]
i have no idea i spell frisbee there we
go frisbee equals
i'm just gonna say console log
there we go
nice
all right here we go we got our pizza
with four properties three methods
they're looking beautiful we got a size
topping crust and sauce property an
estimated delivery time burn mouth and
frisbee function
um
now if i wanted to create another pizza
what would i have to do
copy and paste
exactly if i want to make a whole other
pizza
okay
um
all right
all right so now we're pizza two
pizza two
and now we can change it up small
people got mad with the banana peppers
or remove the banana peppers
a lot of people said thin crust i don't
know where how your mama raised you but
thin crust i guess
and then uh heavy
people just like normal sauce
all right so so new york crust is not
thin crust
right like new york style is not thin
that is that correct like to me new york
is foldable but not thin
i think thin is like something new that
chain
like chain
restaurants made up to like serve you
less food
i love a good foldable slice but
i think thin is different
all right so what all this all this
humming and hauling was if i wanted to
create another object i would literally
have to like copy and paste right did i
not copy and paste
what
there we go not only did i have to copy
and paste and change everything if i
wanted to keep making more pizzas i
would keep copying and pasting over and
over and over again right and each time
i copy and paste it i'm taking out more
memory
and this code is not very what this code
ain't what
code ain't dry
we online we can't be right and dry we
can't be writing wet code anymore we
online can be writing wet code it's just
it's just not dry
so how can we solve this problem
of wanting to create a lot of pizzas
like we like domino's comes through
they're like leon pull up we need you to
make a bunch of pizzas
what can we create that'll enable us to
a constructor exactly a constructor it's
a pizza machine right it's a constructor
the constructor will enable us
to make as many pizzas as we would like
and so
we saw this idea of a constructor
already
we tied us the idea of wanting to make a
bunch of cars coming out of a car
factory
but we could do the same thing for any
type of object whether you want to be a
pizza or a car factory so
let's go ahead and keep that pizza
machine in the back of our brain because
we're going to build a constructor that
is for our pizza so let's keep that
pizza machine in the back of our brain
when we get to building a constructor we
will use the pizza to build our
constructor but let's look at the
constructor syntax first and then we'll
build our constructor together so
here we have a constructor to make a car
the idea is that i can
write my constructor once
i can write my constructor once and then
i can make as many cars
as i want
eventually i'm going to make my own
constructor for my pizza that way i can
make as many pizzas as i would like
now somebody asked like why
like why
well one
is that we don't have to keep rewriting
code over and over again
but eventually we also get to unlock
some secrets of javascript that
prototypal inheritance that we've talked
about in the past when you're using your
constructors you get access to that we
get eventually access to things like the
the prototype chain so we can write
exactly more modular code that we can
write code that takes up less memory we
can take rate code that's more efficient
but to get there we got to understand
what a constructor is and then
eventually what the prototype is so
let's start with this idea of wanting to
create a bunch of cars from this lovely
car constructor
you can see here
that i am
creating a function
and that function starts with a capital
letter what the heck does that capital
letter mean
yeah it's a constructor it doesn't give
it any special powers
or abilities it just says hey the the
function that's about to follow is a
constructor when you use it with this
new keyword you can get a what
when you use the constructor with the
yeah you can get an object an instance
of that object yeah
you can get an object
you get a car you get a car you
maybe
if if if if 100 devs turns into a
million dollars maybe we're raffling
cars and not t-shirts
we can dream can't we
all right
[Laughter]
so here we have this idea that we're
going to create a new object
from this make car constructor
right this make car constructor uh we
could go ahead and um
we can create as many cars as we would
want from this constructor but instead
of having to copy and paste
all of these lines every single time we
wanted to create a new object we only
have to do new and then call the
constructor new and call the constructor
and so we can turn
making a hundred cars into a hundred
lines instead of a hundred times this
many lines of code all right
cool
so when we go ahead and we use this
constructor notice that we've passed in
four what what are what are these called
for what
yeah we're passing in four arguments and
those arguments going to be placed into
the parameters of the constructor so
honda
finds its way into car make
civic
finds its way into car model
silver finds its way into car color and
four
finds its way into number of doors so
wherever i see car make
it's now actually honda
wherever i see car model it is civic
wherever it is car color it is now
silver
and wherever his number of doors is now
for
okay
also the object that's coming out of it
right the object that's coming out of it
also gets this honk method the beep
[__] uh it also gets this lock method
locked and the cool thing is whenever
you see this dot doors what is this
referring to
what is this referring to
yeah the object itself
so how many doors
would this object that we just created
have if we ask for this doors how many
are we getting
yeah we're getting four we passed in
four
number of doors was four so this that
doors is for remember this is referring
to the object itself cool
now if we want to create a whole new car
well guess what we don't have to sit
here and type all this crap out again we
can go ahead and just call the
constructor again
don't forget our new keyword and we can
pass in all these values
again
out will come out of this car what will
come out of this out of this constructor
will be a car that has the following
properties it'll have a make property a
model property a color property a doors
property and two methods hunk and lock
so let's go and take a look at this
i'm going to grab this real quick and
i'm gonna put it in my terminal
my console sorry
and
now that constructor function is in
memory
and i can go ahead and let's just grab
the roadster line
boom let's grab it
yoink
there we go so now we have created a
tesla roadster and if we ask for it
you can see
that it has a color property of red a
doors property of two a honk method how
can i tell that honk is a method here
how can i tell that hunk is a method
here
yeah i can see that it's like the
parentheses and if i open it like that f
parentheses let me know that's a
function that's there same thing for
lock is let me know there's a function
there so it's a method it's tied to an
object we say there's a make property of
tesla and a model property of roadster i
can even ask for these things i could
say like tesla roadster dot make
and get tesla back
now there's one other really cool thing
i can see what about this tesla roadster
when i asked for all the information
that was stored in memory about this
tesla roadster was something that i
noticed about where it came from what
can you see where it came from
yeah we can see the constructor the
factory that it came out of and we can
see that it's coming from the make car
factory right we can see that this is a
an object that comes from the make car
factory any car that i create out of
this constructor we will be able to see
that it comes from the make car
constructor and since it comes all these
objects come from the make car
constructor what's a cool thing that
they all share
what do you what is any car that comes
out of this constructor share
[Music]
people will be watching the videos back
people will be doing the homework
yeah they get grandma they get the
prototype right remember
the object can always check itself for
properties and methods
but if it does not have that property
method it can go up the prototype chain
the inheritance chain to find those
properties and methods and once the
object is done checking itself
where is the first place it looks to
find those other properties and methods
where's the first place it goes
yeah it goes to the the mama constructor
exactly it goes out to the constructor
function it checks itself
then it checks the constructor function
and eventually can go all the way up the
prototype chain until it gets to the
what
until it gets the what i need to make
that like i need to like
oh that's a good project idea would it
be an amazing project like when i do
this
it does like the more you know across
the stream that's i can do that i can
detect this hand i can detect my hand
using microsoft's cognitive apis uh
they're a wonderful set of apis that
enable you to
uh
use machine learning at your fingertips
without having to be a machine learning
practitioner
so maybe maybe that's something we'll
work on
all right so yeah we would check the
object itself
right
and then
uh we could check the object itself
and then we could
look at the constructor's prototype see
if there's anything there if not we keep
going up the chain and you hear me
referencing grandma because that's kind
of how it really works let's say i
didn't have a car
i could ask my mom for a car if she
didn't have a car she could ask grandma
for a car and if grandma has the car
well guess what i get to use those
properties and use that car it's the
same thing with our objects when it
comes to javascript
alrighty uh one of the things we've
noticed is that if we ask for our
roadster
like let's look if we go ahead and do
um tesla roadster i think it's still
memory yup if we go and do like tesla
roadster
dot uh bluetooth
uh we can see that we get undefined we
can see that the tesla roadster does not
have bluetooth and so what we can do is
we can actually update the make car
prototype so make car
prototype
bluetooth
now
i can do this and the next time i ask
for tesla roadster bluetooth i get true
what did the tesla roadster check first
because now when i do tesla
roadster.bluetooth
i'm getting true what did it check first
it checked itself first
it did not have bluetooth so then it
checked the prototype and since we just
gave the prototype true
when we asked tesla roadster that
bluetooth it returned true it didn't
have it
itself right it didn't have it itself so
it went up to the prototype
i could do this though
now where did it get true from
itself
i added
bluetooth
to the object itself
so when tesla roadster went and checked
bluetooth
right did it have bluetooth
yes it did that tesla roadster now had
its bluetooth so did it have to go up
the prototype no it just stopped
let's create another car from the um
from the mate car prototype let's go
ahead and say um
it's a cool car
i'm gonna give me a car
because i get streamer brain
nsx
frs
tacoma
i saw a rivian for the first time it's
pretty dope
r34 gtr
prius there we go prius that's what i'm
looking for
so we're going to go ahead and do uh toy
yoda
prius
sometimes i just have fun
said apres equals
new
make car
and we have to pass in the four
properties
so the four properties we have to pass
in are the make
so this is uh toyota
you know what makes a prius cool
people don't know what makes a prius
cool
is that you can leave the ac on all
night long so you can like if you're
going to live out of a car
the prius is the one to do it
i was really into living in my van for a
while it's a story for another day but i
always wish i had air conditioning
yeah you can leave ac running the whole
night because it uses the battery not
gas and in the middle of night if the
battery gets too low the car will kick
on just for a few minutes top off the
batteries and then ac starts blowing
off the battery again
toyota
and then car model
uh
prius
and then we wanted to go ahead and say
car color
and we're gonna go ahead and say gray
and then we're going to go ahead and say
number of doors for
cool
so now if i ask for toyota prius
and i ask for bluetooth
you can see i'm going to get true but
let's just get the object back first
toyota prius let's look at it
does toyota prius itself
have the bluetooth object
can we get 100 devs bumper sticker
i have a i have a no bumper sticker
policy
that's when you jump the shark as a
community
yeah there's there's no
there's no
there's no bluetooth property on
this prius
wait a minute
if you look at tesla roadster
it has a bluetooth property
why does the tesla roadster have a
bluetooth property of true
but the new toyota prius we may not have
it
because you added it leon
[Laughter]
because i did i added it i added it
directly to
the
the tesla roadster
i used dot notation
to add bluetooth to the tesla roadster
but we can see that doesn't change the
constructor still any any car coming out
of this constructor no longer doesn't
have that bluetooth property so
when i do
toyota
prius
dot bluetooth
where is it getting that bluetooth
property one more time
yeah it's getting it from the
constructor's prototype the prius
checked itself it did not have bluetooth
it went up to the prototype
uh uh sorry i went out the prototype
chain to the to the
make car constructor that make car
constructor did have the bluetooth
property so toyota prius has that
property how about if we do this though
doors dot to
string
all right
doors we know toyota prius does have a
doors property
um and it was a property of four
right
and we wanted to go ahead and grab
we wanted to grab that number that door
that was a number
right and turn it into a string
did toyota prius have a tostring method
it doesn't matter if it was already a
string or not stay with me no
twitter prius did not have a two-string
method
did the make car constructors prototype
have to string
nah
so where the heck did it come from
it went all the way up the prototype
chain exactly to the global object
prototype
grab two string off of there
and it was able to use it went all the
way back down the prototype chain and
since the global object prototype
the global object prototype since it had
it
we were able to use it
nice
thanks grandma
alrighty now
let's go ahead and code our constructor
i want to open up
we have a
a set of uh an object's constructor fun
is the name of the folder
objects constructor fun
is the name of the folder objects
constructor fun
i want you to create a constructor
that has
four properties and three methods
right four properties the three methods
and i want it to be our pizza
constructor so make a pizza constructor
with four properties and three methods
we're gonna put three minutes on the
clock
get as far as you can go and then we'll
go over it together
larry phil this is class 26.
join the discord join the ketchup crew
never too late
all right folks three minutes on the
clock you got this dig deep
we're building a constructor
that has four properties
and three methods
ziggy they are they're the go to follow
materials channel they're there
did i label it wrong on discord
[Music]
see
no it says 26.
welcome nicki's
glad you found us
got quite a few folks from colombia in
the community
40 seconds left folks you got this
as far as you can
are objects common in front of
development yeah they're common front
end back end we're going to use them
across our stack as we kind of continue
on
yeah we'll see the class syntax in a few
seconds i like it too
why is it called a stack
stack is a pretty common term across
programming but also it just refers to
all the things you need to get your job
done
you have a bunch of these different
tools that you throw in a stack which is
a data structure but
all right folks come on back come on
back
let's take a look at this together
alrighty
so
we wanted to create a constructor with
four properties and three
lovely
methods and so let's go ahead and create
our constructor
and i was going to go ahead and say
function
and we're gonna call this a pizza
machine
uh but what do i need to change about my
function name here
what do i need to change about my
yeah it needs a capital p
remember that capital p doesn't really
do anything it just lets us know right
it's just
it's just between us see me and you
that that's a constructor
all right cool
and um we're going to have a couple
different properties let's look what our
original properties were
we had size toppings crust and sauce
remember that for me size toppings crust
and pasta
size
toppings
crust
and sauce all right there we go
so now i'm going to go ahead and set up
all of the properties and what keyword
do i need to use so that the objects
that come out of our pizza machine have
those properties
what keyword do i need to use yeah this
this dot size i'm going to set it equal
to size
and i think a lot of times when i do
this people get kind of confused
this right here
is creating the property on the object
like when we look at our objects and
they have like the
size
property and it has some value that
comes from here
right this.size is giving the actual
object the property of size however this
right here is just a what on the right
hand side is just the what
just a parameter is this the parameter
yeah we could call it we could call it
whatever the heck we want we could call
it
um
rainbow
unicorn and it wouldn't matter we just
have to call it rainbow unicorn here
it's just common practice that
the
this that's binding the property to the
object and the parameter are typically
just the same and so we'll just always
kind of keep it the same but i want you
to make sure that you know
that one is a parameter and one is
actually binding that property to the
object
cool so we'll do this dot size equals
size and we'll do the same thing this
dot
toppings equals toppings
and then we'll do this dot
cross
equals
crust
and this dot
sauce
equals
cool
alrighty next we got to go ahead and we
got to add our
methods
so what were our methods that we had
let's see
delivery time burn mouth and frisbee all
right let's go ahead and create those
let's go ahead and create those so we'll
go ahead and do our lovely
this dot
estimate it
the
livery
time and we'll set that equal to a
function
and that function will be a console log
and we'll just say calculating for now
calculating
cool
next one
was burn mouth
this dot burn
mouth
equals a function
and that function we'll just stay at
console.log
and we'll just put in there
there we go
and then
we have the last one this dot
can't believe i keep forgetting it
frisbee
and let's go ahead and create this as a
function as a console.log
that is
there we go
cool
alrighty
now
let's go ahead and create a new pizza
let
pizza
equal
and we can go ahead and what keyword do
we need to create our first pizza
new
and we can use our pizza machine we can
pass in the size
uh large
toppings we can pass in as an array i'm
just gonna say spinach
and a garlic
the go-to's as one might say
and then we're gonna pass in
crust
which will go
deep dish dust time
just to show chicago some love
and then sauce
we're gonna go for
sauce
what are we feeling for sauce
we're saying alfredo
ugh
barbecue sounds kind of good though
i'm gonna say white sauce
i don't know do you all have like white
pizza where you come from
that's like um
it's like a white sauce with like
tomatoes and banana peppers on it
that's that was always the best pizza
it's not alfredo though it's not alfredo
sauce that's something different this is
this is like a really nice
you're from philly we have a place
called celebrities they have the best
white pizza i've ever had in my life
cool
all right so we got a new pizza let's
save this and let's go ahead and open it
in the browser and see how we're doing
so let's open it in the browser
wrong browser
boop all right here we go let's open up
the inspector
and we should be able to see a pizza
cool
great we can see that the pizza is an
object that was made from the pizza
machine constructor we can see that it
has a burn malfunction a crust an
estimated delivery time method a frisbee
method sorry mouth as a method sauce
property of white a size property of
large and a toppings property that's an
array look at this go look at us using
all of our different data structures
look at this go
all right
it's clicking all right so i like to
hear seen a lot of that tonight oh it's
finally clicking hey let's go turn up
congrats thank you for hanging out for
it to start clicking a little bit
all right
so we created our pizza
uh what if i wanted to we would what
have we forgotten
on our constructor what what could we
add to our constructor so that all of
our pizzas had something what could we
do
what what what is our constructor
missing
cheese type oh
big facts
so let's go ahead and do pizza machine
dot prototype
dot cheese or chess
hanging up
excuse me how fancy you are and um let's
go ahead and start by saying
false
those be true or false that's what we'll
do we'll say true or false
cool
and so now if i ask for pizza
dot
chess
you can see it's false so did pizza
itself have ches
no
it had to go up to the pizza machine
prototype to get that chess and see that
it was false
beautiful
um somebody asked during office hours
and i thought it was a really good
question so i want to make sure we take
a second to mention it while we're here
eventually not now this is too advanced
for right now
but eventually we can use this prototype
to our advantage
right now
let's say i'm domino's how many pizzas
do you think domino's makes a day
that's like a consulting interview
how many pizzas does dominoes make a day
do you think
y'all guess i'm wild all over here
thousands maybe a million i don't know i
don't know let's let's just say there
let's let's just let's let's
let's throw prices right rules out the
window and let's say a hundred thousand
pizzas a day hundred thousand pizzas a
day
and so
if we were building a pizza machine
and we made a hundred thousand pizzas
and we gave each one
the
frisbee method
how many google says 1.5 million pizzas
a day all right
all right
so let's say 1.5 million pizzas
and every single pizza that comes out of
our constructor has that frisbee yeet
method
how many methods do we have stored in
memory
if every pizza that came out the
constructor had a frisbee method how
many frisbee methods would we have in
memory
1.5 million because every single object
that we created
would have that method if we look if we
look at pizza right now
we can see that it has its own
frisbee method
that frisbee method's not coming from
the prototype that's the method that's
on the frisbee that came out of that
constructor
right it got it from the constructor but
it's not sitting on the constructor the
object has that itself
right the object has that itself that's
just the name of where it came from
that's not actually the prototype that
pizza has its own
frisbee
method
so if we made 1.5 million pizzas it's
not inheriting that we just made 1.5
million pizzas that all had their own
frisbee method which means we have 1.5
million frisbee methods in memory
what would have been a lot better for us
to do if we knew we were going to make
millions of pizzas
it would have made a lot of sense for us
to put it on the prototype right that
way the the pieces that got made
weren't holding on to their own version
they could all share one version and so
we just lost if we did that if we put it
on the prototype we 1.5 million methods
come out of memory and we can just use
one that's on the prototype
so eventually we can start using these
objects to do stuff that makes our code
more efficient that makes our code
work a little bit faster or use a little
less memory but like i said that's
that's for that's for the future but i
know some folks were thinking about that
and it came out during office hours so i
wanted to mention it again
you know
why wouldn't you do that with every
method maybe you do maybe we'll get
there maybe we will do that
[Laughter]
cool all right before we take our break
uh i want to show something real quick
uh actually let's take our break when we
come back from our break we're going to
look at quickly the class syntactical
sugar and then we're jumping into apis
and we'll finish up class by playing
with our apis working through our apis
when we come back from our break yeah
we'll do a raffle so let's take five
minutes
on the clock
cool
go ahead and press play here i'll see
you in five minutes if you're able
please get up move around hydrate this
last hour of class is gonna be great
we're gonna have a lot of fun with the
apis we're gonna get a raffle in but
please if you're able to get up move
around and i'll see you in five
i'll bring back bob for you and that's
what you want
thank you noor
[Music]
so
do
uh
[Music]
all right folks come on back come on
back
all right
so
we saw the traditional constructor
and with the newest versions of es6 plus
when i say es6 plus what the heck do i
mean
yeah
so there is a specification for
javascript
kind of like
the rules for how javascript should come
together kind of the
the the the
guidelines for how javascript should
come together and that's called
ecmascript
and those kind of versions or the
versions of this get updated every so
often
and so in 2015 there were pretty big
changes to the standard and so we call
anything that happened from like 2015
forward es6 plus and what we mean is
like all the big changes forward that
happened and so one of those big changes
were they added some syntactical sugar
to stuff to make javascript a little bit
more digestible for folks coming from
other languages right and so
one of the things they did is what we
have on the screen here which is a class
books coming from other object oriented
languages we're very used to having
classes but prototypal inheritance is a
little bit different
and so to make them feel comfortable
they gave them classes which kind of
obstructed away the prototypal
inheritance it's still there it's still
underneath the hood it's just a little
bit looks a little bit different so
feels feel a little bit more comfortable
so going forward we won't write our
constructors using like the older syntax
you'll see me using the class-based
syntax to do it and there's really only
uh one real difference
that you kind of see it break down into
two main sections the constructor area
and then your actual methods so instead
of doing like this dot honk equals and
then a function you give the name and
your parentheses and your curly braces
like normal and that's the method so
this make car constructor
has the constructor bit here just like
normal and then our methods follow after
so it's very similar to the constructor
that we're used to just a little bit of
sugar to make a little bit different
somebody said who makes the changes uh
there are committees or like boards that
make changes to these languages whether
it is html css or javascript and you can
actually like run for office for some of
them right um every so often people have
to be like voted on to the to the to the
teams
and so it's a big deal like if you get
really into this stuff that you want to
help push the specification forward and
then like there are people that are like
in charge of saying like yes or no and
they all vote kind of like a board for
javascript basically
um so that's pretty cool all right let's
do a raffle
it's not open yet
let me go ahead and open it first
um
all righty
not yet
all right not yet
all right here we go you can do
exclamation point raffle to get in
excretion point raffle again this is for
learn with leon swag
let's do one a minute
here just to give everybody a fair shot
exclamation point raffle to get in
you got this get in get in
you two could be the lucky owner
the the the merch cell's out folks this
might be the only way to get it
[Music]
how are we doing with the store let's
see if there's still anything in there
[Music]
nope
merch sold out folks merch sold out
that's wild
i love it
as you get your merch you gotta you
gotta rep it
throw it in the discord showing us that
you got it
tweet me
alrighty folks come on back
alrighty let's go ahead and pick the
winner i'm gonna close the entries here
and i'm gonna pick the winner in three
two
one
jasmine hey
congrats on the win jasmine hey congrats
on the win uh i will get a message your
way here you're gonna whisper for me
here on twitch so keep an eye on your
whispers and i'll reach out to you after
stream
cool i'm gonna go ahead and complete
this one
and make my little note over here
cool well we're gonna do another raffle
before we do our raid this evening so
still another chance to get a lovely
lovely 100 dev swag package
cool
all right
apis
what the heck are apis
chat what what the heck is an api
we haven't announced the project
portfolio winners yet we haven't done
that yet
what are apis
oh
a lot of things over here application
programming interface app what's that
mean
application programming interface what
huh
a simple interface
for some complex action
simple interface
or a complex
action so
i have
in front of me
i can't unplug it i'll use the different
let's use let's use um my lovely uh
pokemon pikachu 2
who's currently mad at me i have to
shake jacob so he doesn't get mad
i have this lovely pokemon pikachu 2
and
if i want it to
turn this
off what could i do
what's the most primal thing i could do
to turn this off
i could smash it i could just throw it
on the ground sometimes pikachu gets to
my nerves i could just smash it break it
and it would turn off
maybe i could rip the battery out and it
would turn off
but uh that's probably not what
the makers of this want me to do
they probably want me to use
the interface that they have given me
and press the right button to turn this
on and off
so
we could have done something extreme
like smashed it or ripped the battery
out but the makers have kindly given me
an interface
and that interface is the button to turn
it on
and off
so
we can think of this turning on and off
as a very complex action there's a lot
of stuff that has to happen for this to
turn on right the button has to be
pressed power has to fill capacitors the
the power has to leave the capacitor go
to the lcd screen that screen then needs
to display the right pixels to see
pikachu in all of its glory that is a
very complex action and turning it off
is the same thing we have to like power
it down the power has to leave the
screen has to turn off all these things
have to happen
for this to turn on and off
and i don't have to know how any of that
works
i don't have to know what's happening
from the
power leaving the battery to powering
the screen
i just press a button or i give it a
shake and that's my interface to turn it
on
right that's my interface
i see a lot of people throwing out
abstraction you're right we're going to
get there right and so for me
i like to think about this in a another
way too i had a simple interface that
turned my pikachu on and off
but i also like to think about a
restaurant
a restaurant when i sit down the
restaurant gives me a simple interface
that enables something complex to happen
in the kitchen what is the simple
interface that a restaurant gives me
that enables me to have something
complex happen in the kitchen
yeah
a restaurant can give me a menu
and i can select what i want off that
menu that menu is my interface and when
i select something off that menu
i can then have something complex happen
in the kitchen and so when i select my
let's see what do i want pizza right
we'll be going with pizza when i select
my pizza off the menu
i don't actually know what's happening
in the kitchen i don't know how long
they're stretching the dough for i don't
know exactly what's in the sauce i don't
know exactly what type of vegan cheese
they're using i don't know where the
spinach came from right i don't know
description
i don't know what's happening in the
kitchen i don't know if they're washing
their hands exactly i don't know what's
happening in the kitchen all i know is i
had a simple interface
something complex happened and then i
have a delicious delicious pizza right
same thing is happening
when we
use
right when we use the apis that we're
about to use but instead of it being a
menu and the menu being an interface
the url that we have is our interface
based on the url that we use
we are making a request
for some complex action to happen on a
server
that action happens and then the server
responds
with some information
so just like the menu enabled me to make
a request for some food a url will
enable me to make a request for some
complex set of data or some sort of
action that happens on the server and
get a response
now there are apis that we can use from
everywhere we have web apis that we're
going to use tonight where we're worried
about getting data from a server but
there are apis built into our computers
there's apis built into everything that
you use because all an api is
is a simple interface for something
complex you've been using interfaces all
day long you might have used the light
switch you might have hit a key we have
all these beautiful interfaces that we
use all the time that enable us to do
some complex
actions
cool
now when we talk about an application
programming interface
we gotta we're gonna we're gonna start
throwing out some of those more meaty
terms
but let's save that for for tuesday
let's just worry about like what an
interface is in this case our interface
will be a url
all right it'll be a url
we'll use that url
that url will enable us to make a
request
to some server
that server
will hear our request and it's going to
do a bunch of stuff
it's going to do a bunch of stuff
once it's done doing that stuff it's
going to respond
and the stuff it's going to respond with
is typically going to be formatted in
json the apis we're going to be using
tonight the web apis that we'll be using
tonight we'll hear our request
and respond with json or a javascript
object
right javascript object notation and so
we're going to get this lovely
object back
and so once we get this object back we
can do whatever the heck we want with it
we can pull different properties out we
can run the methods that it came with
but all we're doing
is we're using an interface which
instead of it being a light switch or a
button or a menu
it is a url
the server here's our request
it has some code that's been written to
hear that request
generate the response and then respond
with that json
the stuff that's sitting on the server
that hears our request and generates the
response what kind of code is that
yeah that's back end code a lot of the
first back-end code we're going to write
is the build our own api something that
here's a request knows how to generate a
response and then responds with that
json object so
we're going to use other people's apis
tonight but one of the very first things
we'll do in the back end is make our own
apis and so i think that's pretty cool
all right
so here is a simple bit of syntax
that enables us to access web apis while
using a url
we plug in our url or our interface and
we're able to get some data back from a
server
so here i have a couple big pieces
we have this lovely
fetch method
and you can kind of see we chain these
other methods the then
the then the catch
eventually we'll build up to
why we're what these are these are
promises we don't have to worry about
that yet when we get the object oriented
we'll learn about promises then we'll
learn about async await we'll learn
about all these other wonderful things
that we will learn down the line
but let's not worry about understanding
what the heck
a promise is let's not worry about
wondering what the heck async away is
let's just learn how to use an api and
get some data and have some fun with it
cool so
this fetch is what enables us to use our
interface
i promise i won't worry exactly
enables us to use our interface which is
just the url and we're going to get some
data back
and this very first line here says hey
just treat whatever is coming back as
json
so just that treat it as like a big old
object
and then whatever came back we're going
to pass through this parameter of data
so whatever we get back from that server
is going to be passed into this
parameter of data so if i want to see
what's coming back from the server one
of the first things i'm going to do is
just console log data
if something was to go wrong
our error will be printed to the console
so we don't have to worry about
how this is working
or what exactly it's doing tonight
that's not our goal we'll have plenty of
time where we break down this line by
line by line also we've got to know that
this is a pattern that we can use
to make a request to a server and get
some pretty cool data back that's it
that's where i want your brain tonight
all right we're going to make fetch
happen tonight and that's all we're
doing
know that we can plug in our different
urls
and we can console log the data that
comes back or use it however we
want
what does rest stand for it doesn't
matter what it what this would be
because this is just a what
res and data are just what
they're just parameters yeah we could
have called this robot we could have
called this unicorn it really doesn't
matter it just it just it's pretty
standard for people to use res short for
response
like the response you're getting back
from the server and then people use all
different types of parameters whatever
they want to call it here but if you
look
this is just a a method right we can see
that it has the parentheses we're
running it
right kind of like if we had like a map
or a for each or other things that we've
seen before just parameters
yeah
cool
this is out of your comfort zone no it
shouldn't be because we're we're
trusting in this idea that none of this
matters except for two things
one
that this is where we plug in our url
and two this is where we see our
response that's all we're worried about
tonight all this other stuff is gravy
we'll get there down the line
json derulo hey thank you for the gift
itselves thank you for being here hope
you're doing well
jason derula always shows up when we
need the most
alrighty so
we looked at an original example
which was our dog photos example so
let's go and take a look at this again
uh we have this idea
if we go to the dog photos
example
we have an html file and a js file
and what i want to be able to do
is get a dog photo from the dog ceo api
and place that photo into the dom
if i look in my html file i have an
image
right an image i wouldn't be able to
take the value i got
from the dog ceo api
and plug it into this image here
now we've done this once together very
quickly in in class uh
last tuesday and then if you were with
mayan wolf mayan wolf went through this
in way more detail than we're going to
get to
right and so what i want you to do is i
want you to take
three minutes
you're really going to copy and paste
copy and paste
see if you can get the value out of the
object and then see if you can plug it
into the dom
cool
we're gonna put just a few minutes on
the clock here
let's put four minutes on the clock
i want you to go ahead
we want you to go ahead
grab the value
right
see if you can plug the photo into the
dom
let's go ahead and i'll pull up the
slide that has
you can see the code we're going to use
the code that we have we already have
the interface which is the dog ceo api
i need you to go and get
a response from the api and plug that
photo into the dom
try it yeah three minutes 30 seconds to
make it happen
we already did this
try it again
why does data have curly braces and res
doesn't because res is on one line using
that implicit return and then data is
also an arrow function but we want to be
able to have multiple lines so we have
the curly braces because we might not
just do it all in one line
arch we've actually done this before in
class
you're really just copying and pasting
on this one
and then mine did it as well my wife did
it as well
so yes
you should be a little bit more
comfortable with this
then it's because that's just how it
works that's how they built it out they
built it out to handle those two
specific things in that order
rest is just a parameter
click on whatever you want but it's
short for response
no way juice to go way faster
can we have a yolo maybe maybe
i gotta be careful with the yolos folks
are getting too close
if i paid you would you eat papa john's
no
pretty comfortable there's no amount of
money
that would make me papa john's
the crafty sheep thank you for the
hydration cheers to you
what if they sponsored a class
never
i they would never be able to sponsor
this stream
your ads are papa john ads hey i can't
hate the game right can't hate the game
we do is talk about pizza on this stream
it makes sense
all right
let's go through and take a look at this
together
i am going to copy and paste
boom copy
i have my fetch
boom
i already have my url in place right
like i already have my url where uh my
interface
let's go ahead and save and see what we
have working for us let's go ahead and
open this in the browser
let's open up our inspector
go to the console and we can see we're
getting an object
great we're getting an object we see
that that object has to what
to what
true properties nice yeah i have no
control over the ads so
uh if you keep spamming ads it does
nothing for me i can't i can't help you
i'm sorry we run ads during the break
and um
normally that works for most folks but
sorry uh
nothing i can control there
messages and status we have two
properties right we have two properties
message and status and so it's part of
one object
right and so what i can do
is i can grab
either of these properties right so
let's go and take a look
if we look at our fetch
we can see that everything that's coming
back from the server is gonna pass
through this function
yeah
yeah if you refresh and come back in you
get you get pre-roll ads
and so yeah i think that's just kind of
one of the downsides of refreshing
unfortunately
yeah
cool so everything that comes back from
this server right everything that comes
back from this request
is going to be passed through
into this method and going to be passed
through data so wherever i see data
right wherever i see data
that's the response that has come back
from the server and so you can actually
see us console.log
right we console logged the response
that came back
and since we console logged that
response
right since we console logged that
response we were able to see the object
that came back from the dog ceo
right
he's so cute
he can't really stand up yet
so simba got up off of his like
mattress that's probably more expensive
than my mattress and like stumbled
closer to me and then kind of laid on
the
on the carpet next to me
he's doing all right
he's good all right so we can see that
we got the object uh back from
the we got the object back from the api
so what happened
is
if we were to draw this
we had my laptop
that request left my laptop
went to the dog
ceo server
the dog ceo server heard that request
and it did some stuff maybe it had to go
to the database
maybe has like a database of dog photos
like the code went and got the photo
from the database or the link to the
photo from the database and then it
responded to my machine
with that data
and that data was formatted as json
and so we were able to use that json
object and what we did with it is we
console logged it
and the cool thing is since it's just an
object now
right once once we know that's an object
we can we can treat it like an object we
saw that it had two properties it had a
message property
and a status property and we can see
that this message property is just an
image
so let's go ahead and just do
data.message
save it
come back refresh
and now we're just getting that image
url
now before we use the image url i got to
ask you a question
for the first year that i use this code
to get data back from an api
do you think i could code it from
scratch
like probably for like the first year i
ever used this code
i was using it all the time every every
day every week
no hell no i had no idea what this meant
or how it worked or
or what all these bits
meant i just knew if i used this
specific code
i could make a request to this url
and get my data back
eventually i learned more
right i learned what promises were i
learned a single way i learned all these
other things
but for like literally the first year
that i was working with eight probably
more than that probably like first two
years i was using apis i had no idea
what any of this crap meant
or what was really happening underneath
the hood i just knew with my big brain
that if i put the url there
i got some stuff back and i could use it
that's it so take that pressure off your
shoulders right now you don't need to
know more than that makes requests gets
a response back that's all we're doing
right now
all right
so
i am console logging that url that to
the image but let's actually use it so
document.queryselector
let's grab the image
grab the image
and we are going to
use the source we're going to change the
source of that image and we're just
going to set it equal to data dot
message
cool
let's save it
let's see if we can get it to work let
me move this over a little bit
let's refresh
boom
[Laughter]
oh looks like uh so i used to have a dog
named cheeky's and that looks that
reminds me of cheeky's
although i would never would have been
able to get a hat on her that would
never would have happened
that's so cool let's refresh see if we
get a different dog back this time
no fluffers
so each time
i refresh i'm making a new what
each time i i refresh i'm making a what
yeah i'm making a request to their
server
and their server hears that request and
it responds
with that lovely json that i can use i
can take that object
right
i can take that object i can pull the
pieces out that i want and i can use
them to my advantage so what i did is i
went ahead and i
grabbed the
uh
url that they gave me i saw that i was
getting back a bunch of data i'm able to
parse through that data and grab the
bits and bobs that i want
cool
now if you want to see this taken to the
next level
you got to go back and watch mine wolf's
vod uh so mine wolf if you if you're
watching me live right now
you'll notice underneath my name there
should be like somewhere that says a
hundred devs
a hundred devs is our stream team you
can see all the folks that are on the
stream team if you click on that you'll
see mine wolf you can go directly to
their channel and grab the vod after
class if you want uh it's also linked in
the follow-on materials channel
watch the vod if you want to take this
to the next level right they use this
added so much more stuff to it spent
more time going through it so you can
see how you could use this to make even
more even bigger of a project
cool
it's working hey
let's move on to our next one
so
next the next api i want to use or the
next interface i want to use is the
cocktail database
and the cool thing about the cocktail
database is that it gives us a lot of
different interfaces that we can use
to our advantage so here we go
i went to thecocktaildb.com that was a
risky type
and inside the cocktail database you can
see there's a bunch of these interfaces
which are all just different
urls that i can use to get different
data
back
right i can use to get different data
back so we're going to use this to get
different drinks back from the database
um
just so that you know there is a
non-alcoholic version of this so if you
don't want to be dealing with alcoholic
drinks you can use the non-alcoholic
version of this as well
cool
so the first kind of url that i see or
the first interface i see
is the
cocktaildatabase.com all this stuff but
at the very end
i have the question mark s equals
margarita
and so if i make a little bit bigger so
we can see it we can see that it's
question mark s margarita
and so what we're going to notice
right what we're going to notice
is that sometimes we have the interface
which is the url
but sometimes we can add query
parameters
so that the server knows specifically
what we want
all right it shows the query parameters
that it enables me to say look you know
what i don't want any specific kind of
drink i want a margarita back and so we
can use these query parameters to get
certain stuff back from the server now
the server has to be coded to be
listening for those query parameters so
this
interface this url has been coded on
their end so that when it sees s equals
it only grabs stuff that's tied to
whatever you put there
so let's go ahead and take and look and
see if we can use this
uh with what we've been using so far so
i have the
shots
object shots folder and that's where i'm
going to start so object shots and what
i want to be able to do is i want the
user to be able to enter a cocktail
and then get the name photo and
instructions on how to make that
cocktail
so the idea would be that the user could
enter in a margarita and they would get
back the name the photo and the
instructions on how to make the
margarita
okay
so
i want folks to take a few minutes to
try this on their own remember you're
just gonna take the fetch
that we used right the fetch that we
used
you're going to use that fetch here
you're going to use the new interface
the new url
see what you get back
see if you can parse through what we got
back see if you can use it
to your advantage
all right so this is in the object shots
uh you want to be able to enter in a
cocktail and get the name the photo the
instructions and place them in the dom
the
url itself is in the slides uh and it's
and you can use it i'll leave the slides
up so you can see if you need to grab it
um
and then
we're gonna put five minutes on the
clock here and then we'll go over it
together
i want you to try
try play with it break it see what comes
back
have some fun with it
put the link in chat too
you're getting some chorus errors make
sure you're using
https
checking off your vpn on and then you
have to google how to get around it
yeah make sure you're using https
this is what we're doing
these just be able to enter in a
cocktail get the name the photo and the
instructions and put them in the dom
all right
got this
we talk with about api keys yeah when we
get there let me get there
so
why did the fetch get different dog
images instead of a specific one because
they just returned a random one with
each request
glad to hear it stormtrooper
very make sure you're using the right
url double check
we'll go through it together
instructions are in this in the actual
uh setup you're just trying to get a
drink back that's all
a minute left and we'll go over it
together
30 seconds and we'll do it together
you get errors you got to google them
errors are a good thing punch in the
right direction
no errors is when you got to get scared
all right folks let's go over this
together come on back
all right so we had our fetch
um that we had from the previous the dog
photos
let's just grab this fetch
and let's put it over here into the the
object shots
and we just need to change the url out
so i gave you the url on the slides
let's try this url first
if anything happens with it
make sure it works if not we'll grab the
one directly from the site
boom let's save it
and i'm just gonna go ahead and open
this in
the browser
so open it in the browser
let's open up the inspector
and we're getting a fail to load
resource
error file not found undefined one
we go to our line five
we have an error here
we have an error it told me on line 5
there is an error
what's the what's the line 5 error
it's probably not a message property
right that was specific to the dog cpo
the dog ceo api that i was using let's
go ahead and save this let's go back
and uh let's refresh again
we'll refresh
great awesome we got a lovely drinks
array back
and if we look at this drinks array
there's a lot of stuff in here
we got like this object
let's see we have an object that has a
drinks property
and that drinks property
right that drinks property
has an array inside of it
right has an array inside of it let's go
back and take a look oh we also have
this stuff done here right we don't need
this anymore boom let's get rid of this
that'll probably get rid of the error
too we can just see the object in there
cool so i got back an object
and that object has a drinks property
and that drinks property is an array of
objects we see that right all the
objects that are inside of that so let's
just narrow this down a little bit let's
just grab the drinks property and see
what we get so data
dot drinks
cool
the data dot drinks
and now we're just dealing with the
array
right we did we saw that there was
drinks in there
there was there was an array in there
right so we just had drinks to drill
into it to drill into it just a little
bit and now we're just dealing with the
array
we can see that the array it has a bunch
of objects inside of it
how could i grab
the first object
out of this array
index zero yeah let's try it
drinks
index
zero
let's save it let's see what we get
remember this is all about being playful
trying it sometimes it works sometimes
it doesn't
and there we go now we have just an
individual
we have an individual object
that came
out of that array that came with that
big old object so all i did is i just
drilled down right let's let's delete it
and go all the way back
let's start with just data
just data let's start there
we can see that we got this object back
and that object has a drinks property
which is an array
and if we look it's an array of objects
so i can go drinks and then grab the
first object
using our array notation so let's go
ahead and do dot
dot drinks
square bracket zero it's gonna grab the
first drink out
let's save this and refresh again and so
now i'm getting an individual drink we
can see that it is a margarita
um we see all this stuff about like all
the stuff that came from
the uh from the the response
and so i like a few things here i want
i want the
drink
name oh here we go extra drink is
probably the name of the drink
i'm gonna want the thumbnail like the
picture of the drink
and then i want the
instructions on how to make the drink
and i'm gonna want to put them into
the dom so let's go ahead and do that do
we have anything in our html let's just
check
oh we do we have a place to put the name
we have a place to put the image and we
have a place to put the instructions
so we'll just target the h2 the image in
the h3
cool
h2 the image in the h3 let's start there
so we can just do our normal document
dot query selector
and we're going to target that
h2 and we're going to put inside of it
whatever it was in that first drink so
we know that it's data.drinks0
let's grab that to start
and then
what was the name of the property
for the drink name
i think it was just a drink
all right extra drink so we can just do
straw drink
let's copy that
and do dot
drink
all right let's save this let's see if
we get anything popping up into the h2
all right
margarita showing up in the h2 spot
right margarita showing up in the h2
spot
nice
cool
let's go ahead and let's take a peek
while we have the object up
let's see
um
straight drink thumb
is the name of the property that has the
image in it
so let's go ahead and try using that so
i'm going to do my document
dot query selector i think this is one
of those ones where you're probably not
trying to frantically copy along with me
just pay attention to what we're doing
so that we can kind of get there
together
but with an image i'm not using inner
text what am i going to use to change an
image
yeah
source
and it's going to be the same thing we
have up here
the data drinks zero
but instead of being extra drink it was
extra drink thumb
the straw drink
thumb
was the name of the property that was
holding the image
url
let's save this let's go back let's
refresh
that's a massive image
that's a really big image let's just do
some quick css real quick
[Music]
css style.css
come down here oh we already have
something for the image let's go and do
image let's just do with
i don't know
well let's not do with let's do
height
200 pixels there we go height 200 pixels
and that should just make sure that the
image is smaller
they're not save right let's refresh
there we go cool
so now we have like the smaller image
and the last bit was the
instructions
was the instructions so let's see in
here
uh
straw
instructions is what it's called
let's go ahead let's go back to our
javascript
we're going to target that h3
document.queryselector
let's target the h3
we'll use inner text again remember
inner text just enables us to put text
inside the element we're going to grab
the drinks again
but it's not going to be drink thumb we
just saw that extra
instructions
and i don't trust myself to spell it
right so i'm just going to copy it
and
boom
and so this is a lot of like your early
api work where you are just kind of like
looking at the object
picking it apart trying to get pieces
out playing with it sometimes it breaks
sometimes it's not sometimes you dig
deeper sometimes you have to go back up
a level
let's save this let's go back
cool so now we have a margarita
with the photo
and the instructions to make it let's go
i love it
cool um
but right now
this is uh hard-coded
this is hard-coded
this will uh only
this will only give me margaritas
i need a way of like changing what this
is
so that i can get stuff that's not a
margarita
so what i want to do is
inside this html we have an input
and a button so what i want to do is i
want to get
the value out of the input
and use that as part of my request
so we're not hard coding
margarita
right
how could i
get the value out of the input when i
press the button what do i need
we need an event listener so let's go
ahead and create an event listener
uh and there was nothing special about
that it was just button yeah it's just a
button doesn't even have an id there's
only one button so we just use the
button so we can say
let's come up here
document dot query selector
we'll say button
and then we'll say add event listener
we'll need the click and then we'll call
our function
uh get
drink
cool
let's go ahead and create a function
called get drink
and what i'll do is i'll put the fetch
inside of that function
and the reason why i need to put the
fetch inside this function is because i
eventually
only want the fetch to run
once i've gotten the value
out of the um
the value out of
the input
so let's
how do we get the value out of an input
we've seen this pattern before
definitely should be in your anki by now
yeah dot values let's do document
dot query selector
input
dot value
and we we have to do what with it right
now it would just like poof out of thin
air use a template i got you it would
just poof out of thin air
um
you gotta store it so let's just call
this like let
drink equal
and
that'll be the value that the user
entered
and then
we want to plug it in here
so what we could do is we could use a
template literal
where i turn this into ticks
and instead of hard coding margarita
we can
put in our
bling drink
there we go
try it
if it'll be on one line
there you go
so now what's going to happen is
we will click our
button
will grab the drink out of the input
and then instead of just having
margarita hardcoded it'll now be
it'll be whatever drink we pass in
cool
let's save this
let's not get
wild right off the gate let's use the
thing we know already works
let's grab the margarita
and
[Music]
what time is this in there we go
and let's come back here let's refresh
uh notice how we're not getting anything
by default anymore
right
notice how we're not getting anything by
default because we've now said all right
we gotta plug in what we want
we're gonna click the button
first try
let's go
the training wheels are coming off
just like rip my shirt that's only fans
content or else i would
let's try a different type of drink
let's try gin
nothing makes you want to fight like gin
all right here we go we got a gin fizz
back
with the image and the ingredients to
make it
i'm a whiskey drinker though so let's do
whiskey
beautiful we got a whiskey sour
all right got a whiskey sour
and we get the image we get the shake
and ice
first try
and you can still see that we um
you can still see that we have the like
the still the console logs are there so
you can see the console log that's
coming through each time
but we're using the data a little bit
differently now so
we click the button which fires our
function get drink
the first thing we do is get the value
out of the input
and then we make our fetch like normal
except
this
url this interface that we're using
it has a query parameter
that enables us to plug in the different
drinks that we would want
beautiful
now we can get different drinks back
now there's a couple of things that i
want you to work on because we're we're
kind of at the end of our time tonight
there's some things i want you to work
on for homework
one
this right now would have a hard time
with having
spaces
in the drinks that we're asking for
right so if we ask for a drink that has
a space in it right now it might it
might might not work we'll actually use
a template literal but try it out see if
you can make it work with names have
spaces in it now the push homework
is we know that when we make a request
right if we console log let's get rid of
the drink zero because we don't want
just the first one
let's save this let's go back
let's refresh
let's put in gin
we can see that when we put in gin
we get 20 different
drinks
right we get 20 different drinks
and so what i want you to do
is i want you to see
if you can make it cycle through the
drinks that's the push homework the push
homework is to see if you can make it be
like a carousel
right a carousel
of drinks and the non-push homework is
try this without a template literal
and see if you can get it working with
things like a moscow mule a drink that
has a space in it the template literals
help you here but if we didn't use a
template literal
play with it but really what i want you
to do is just play with this right play
with the code here break it see what you
get back from the objects that are
coming in
tear it apart right
make sure that you play with this stuff
apis are meant to be played with you're
meant to for stuff to break and to get
on discord and say why am i getting this
error so please as you are playing with
this come ask questions on discord make
sure everything is going the way you
want it and then have fun with it make
this app do something we saw all look at
all this data that we have for each
drink
there's no reason why you can't have
other stuff showing up
different ingredients showing maybe
maybe yours is ingredients showing up
right
cool
now there's one other thing i want you
to work on
before homework
idel hey thank you for the stretch hold
on you know we gotta
i can't do this live
oh yeah
okay
thank you for the stretch
all right so
the other bit of homework that we have
tonight is instead of playing just
playing with the cocktail database right
that's what i want you to play with
make it different do something to it
break it if you want to push see if you
can get it to be a carousel
the other bit of homework is nasa has a
bunch of wonderful
apis
right nasa has a bunch of wonderful apis
uh one of these apis is the picture of
the day
i want you to try
and getting
the nasa picture of the api the nasa
picture of the day api
working can you get an image
back from nasa
and then we will take it a step further
during our next class next class we'll
work with the nasa data to not only get
photos back but to get them back for
specific dates at a specific time right
so we can we can we can we can get them
back and we'll be able to handle a bunch
of edge cases so your homework i want
you to work on before next class is to
play around with the cocktail database
try the different urls try the different
endpoints try these different pieces and
play with it have some fun with it and
then try and get the nasa picture of the
day api
working
we have um
some other stuff here in the homework
remember i want you to play with the
cocktail database try getting the nasa
api working and then your homework that
won't be due tuesday which will be due
thursday is to build three really simple
apps like we just did
i want you to try using some public apis
to build some simple apps just use the
fetch that we did
plug in a different url and see what you
get back some of these apis in this
public api list won't work
they just they're just it's just an old
list so some of them will work some of
them won't
make sure you're still doing your code
wars daily make sure you're still doing
your anki daily and uh
thank you for
the best week ever
and we we can't we can't
we can't just end the best week ever
like normal
we gotta end the best week ever with a
very special raid and it is my absolute
pleasure and privilege to raid hello its
rufio one of my dreams folks is to
always just raid folks that are part of
the stream team and so hello's roofio is
holding it down for us we're going to go
ahead and raid them tonight if you
haven't yet
please
do me a favor
give them a follow
it's amazing to see somebody code from a
different perspective it's it's amazing
to see them code through things that are
not through my eyes you will learn so
much more
uh about the things we're working on
when you watch somebody else work
through them where you participate and
help them work through the code as well
so we're going to go ahead and raid
hello it's rufio
have a wonderful rest of your evening
have a wonderful weekend good luck with
the homework and i will see you all for
office hours on sunday
if any of this stuff is tripping you up
come to office hours we're gonna have
some fun playing with more apis and
we're back at it next week more more api
fun bigger projects better projects i
hope you're ready to have some fun peace
everyone have a good night
peace youtube